## Operational Excellence

### Serise of questions you should ask yourself.
- How operationally mature is your cloud environment? 
- Are you incorporating modern practices such as DevOps into the way your organization operates? 
- Are you able to assess the health of your infrastructure? 
- Are adverse events visible and actionable? 
- Are you provisioning resources manually, or have you automated them to reduce risk and increase efficiency?

### Monitoring and analytics on Azure

Core monitoring
 
 - Health of cloud services
 
 - Metrics and diagnostics
 
 - Activity logging
    - Who has attached a disk to this virtual machine?
    - When was this machine shut down?
    - Who changed the load balancer configuration?
    - Why did the autoscale operation on my virtual machine scale set fail?
    
- Deep infrastructure monitoring

- Deep application monitoring

### Automation
 
 This configuration can be done manually, but manual steps do not scale well; in addition, they can be `labor-intensive, prone to error, and inefficient`.
 
 ### IaC

 - Imperative and declarative.

        With an imperative approach, you explicitly state the commands that are executed to produce the outcome you are looking for.

        With a declarative approach, you specify what you want the outcome to be instead of specifying how you want it done.
  - VM images vs. post-deployment configuration
    - Custom images are generated by deploying a virtual machine, and then configuring or installing software on that running instance.
    - Post-deployment scripting typically leverages a basic base image, and then relies on scripting or a configuration management platform to perform the necessary configuration after the VM is deployed. The post-deployment scripting could be done by executing a script on the VM through the Azure Script Extension, or by leveraging a more robust solution such as Azure Automation Desired State Configuration (DSC).

### Automation of operational tasks 


Examples of this automation might include:

    Periodically searching for orphaned disks
    Installing the latest security patches on VMs
    Searching for and shutting down virtual machines in off-hours
    Running daily reports and producing a dashboard to report to senior management

## Testing strategies for your application

Testing is one of the fundamental components of DevOps and agile development in general. 
A main tenet of a DevOps practice to achieve system reliability is the `shift left` principle. Testing should occur on both application code and infrastructure code, and they should both be subject to the same quality controls. The environment where applications are running should be version-controlled, and deployed through the same mechanisms as application code. As a result, both application code and infrastructure code can be tested and validated using DevOps testing paradigms.

### Automated Testing

 - Unit Testing
 - Smoke Testing
 - Integration Testing

Acceptance Testing

There are many different ways of confirming that the application is doing what it should.

        Blue/Green deployments: when deploying a new application version, you can deploy it in parallel to the existing one. This way you can start redirecting your clients to the new version; if everything goes well, you will decommission the old version. If there is any problem with the new deployment, you can always redirect your clients back to the older deployment.

        Canary releases: you can expose new functionality of your application (ideally using feature flags) to a select group of users. If these users are satisfied with the new functionality, you can extend it to the rest of your user community. In this scenario we are talking about releasing functionality, and not necessarily about deploying a new version of the application.

        A/B testing: A/B testing is similar to canary release testing, but while canary releases focus on mitigating risk, A/B testing focuses on evaluating the effectiveness of two similar ways of achieving the same goal. For example, if you have two versions of the layout of a certain area of your application, you could send half of your users to one version and the other half your users to the other, and then you could use some metrics to see which layout works better for your application goals. This would allow you to test one experience with some users, and different experience with others. You could then analyze the results to determine the impact of the new user experience.

Stress tests

Fault injection

Security tests
